Final Project Software Development Life Cycle
By: John Seaman
	As the project started, I never heard of different methodologies for developing programs. But learning about waterfall and agile and their differences was enlightening. I have heard and seen waterfall in action more than I have seen agile, but I also haven’t worked as a developer yet. 
With Scrum-agile approach was beneficial to the SNHU travel cite, having a Product Owner get the details from a focus group to enhance the cite was the first key step. The Product Owner doesn’t usually code or test product they usually get the qualifications the customers want and then relay that information to the team to work on. They usually set the backlog itemized list to start for the team, they set the more important items near the top to get done first, they make sure the Product Backlog is clear, visible, and transparent for the Scrum Team. In that list the customers wanted a Top five list of vacation spots, they wanted the list tailored to themselves and be able to set cost limits in their settings. At first the list seemed short but a key thing I picked up on was they wanted to have a setting, to customize so I would make that the top thing on the backlog list. The Scrum Master was mostly there to keep the team on task and focused on completing the program on time. The developers would use the Backlog list and take each item and do them one at a time and do them to completion. After the developers are done with that item, the tester usually steps in the test the feature and if it works then they send it to completion, if not they fix the issue. 
Using the Scrum-agile approach helped bring the project to completion by being flexible with what tasks get done. When the project got interrupted near the end of completion and the customers wanted a specific setting, that item becomes the new top item to work on. The whole focus then goes to completing that new item first. Since agile methodology has a heavy focus on flexibility, the change just melded into the backlog and then was worked on like nothing new. If it were a waterfall approach, the whole project would come to a halt, and they would have to back up to the point in which the new setting would be added in. With waterfall that would set the time table back further but with agile the time table stays the same. 
Another key factor in agile is communication. Since agile methodology has a feature of having Scrum Meetings, a Scrum Master runs and sets these meetings. The meeting being anywhere from fifteen minutes to thirty-minute meetings tends to keep the whole team in the loop on what is going on. These meetings can be daily or weekly. Having the communication with the whole team can help the team see who needs help and how far along the team is by seeing the backlog. Having the meetings everyday tend to show if any changes from the Product Owner occur the team, then can adjust accordingly. Having the communication from Product Owner to the team helps produce the best possible product for the customers and keeps them coming back. 
Using the Microsoft Azure Boards is a great way for a team to see the backlog and be able to edit it anytime when needed. The Product Owner starts the board and then shares the board to the Scrum Master and the team that will be working on that backlog. As time goes on and Scrum meetings happen either in person or over Zoom, the team would discuss what is done and what needs to be done. If issues arise then a Jira can be made for testers or other developers to see what is wrong and can fix the issues. So, in the testing stage a tester can send a Jira out to the developers about an issue and have the fix the issue. 
The overall effectiveness of the Scrum-agile approach I feel is a success. For this project agile would’ve been the best method to do. I say this because the clients had specific things they wanted out of the site and if those things weren’t met then the cite wouldn’t work the way they wanted. So, with the backlog you want to have specific key parts done before moving to other parts. Even with the interruption of the clients wanting a specific change the team can back up to the point where the code needs to insert with no interruption to the flow of the team. Having a waterfall approached would’ve hurt when the sudden interruption happens because if the team is either past the point of programming or aren’t close to completion then the whole plan gets scraped and the team then must start over. With the travel cite going with the Scrum-agile approach this benefited the team because of the communication and flexibility they have to make changes when needed. 












Citation
Charles G. Cobb. The Project Manager’s Guide to Mastering Agile : Principles and Practices for an Adaptive Approach. Wiley; 2015. Accessed February 14, 2022. https://search-ebscohost-com.ezproxy.snhu.edu/login.aspx?direct=true&db=nlebk&AN=937009&site=ehost-live

